Object-Oriented Programming and Design -

This assignment carries a total of 150 marks. You can do this assignment in
groups of 2-4 students. Assessment of each student would be done separately.
The goal of this project is to design a cellular network simulator. The use of
object-oriented features such as inheritance, data abstraction, data hiding and
polymorphism is essential.

1. Simulation Framework: Create a simulator framework where you have
a total of three different types of classes – user device, cell tower and
cellular core. Assume that the cellular core generates messages, depending
on the type of protocol used, and the amount of overhead generated per
100 messages imposes a limit on the number of user devices. Another limit
imposed is the fact is the number of users that can be accommodated per
frequency. You are required to specify how many users a single cell tower
can accommodate, and identify the users who are occupying a specific
frequency.

2. 2G Communication 2G communication in cell towers uses packet switch-
ing for data and circuit switching for voice. It also uses time division 
multiple access, which can satisfy a maximum of 16 users per 200 kHz.
Each user device connection creates a total of 5 messages each for data,
and 15 messages for voice. Assuming that a total of 1 MHz is allocated,
provide how many user devices can be supported, and the users occupying
the first channel (first band of 200 kHz) within the 2G spectrum.

3. 3G Communication 3G communication uses packet switching for both
data and voice. It uses code-division multiple access, where instead of
splitting across time, the data is mixed with a specific digital code. A
single user device generates a total of 10 messages to be supported. This
allows a total of 32 users per 200 kHz channel. Answer the same questions
as above for this use case.

4. 4G Communication 4G communication continued with the above, but
moved to OFDM, which allowed splitting into even smaller sub-channels.
Assume that a total of 30 users are assigned to 10 kHz, and that each user
still takes 10 messages to be supported. Furthermore, it also allows use
of up to 4 antennas in parallel,, where the same channels can be re-used.
Again, answer the same questions as above. Also identify the number of
cellular cores that need to be used to use the full potential.

5. 5G Communication 5G communication in addition moved to supporting
higher frequency channels of another 10 MHz at 1800 MHz. However, to
support higher data rates, the 1800 MHz only supports a total of 30 users
per 1 MHz. It also supports massive MIMO with a much larger number
of antennas of up to 16. Answer the same questions as above.